Yes, how are you all? Welcome to all of you. I had
another afternoon tea at Chai Aur Code,
so I thought of discussing it with you. And
a little more. Seeing the title, you must be thinking
that Sir, DSS Study Guide Launch, have you
also launched another course? Well,
look, we are teachers and it is the job of teachers to
launch batches and launch courses, but don't
go by the title. No, no, we are not launching any course. But
which course do you have to purchase,
where do you have to purchase it? There is no link, no
referral, no guide. But
I will give you a framework here,
which will help you to
figure out for yourself, which
course should you take, should you study for free,
should you study for paid, or how
can you self-analyze yourself. This is what we are going to
discuss in this video and
this is what will be discussed. Now see, at first, I
thought that I am making these raw videos. While
drinking tea in the afternoon, if I
upload videos without editing, then maybe
people will not like it. People think
that I should add fancy edits, add cuts, point to
point talk.  Do it but you people have done a great job,
you all said that sir it is fun to have such raw discussions,
upload such videos, it feels like we are
talking sitting in front of each other, so in the same
way we will sit in front of each other and talk in these raw discussions
and see one important thing,
in the last video I had given you a comment
target, in this video I am giving you a
unique comment target that we
need 333 comments in a single day, plus
I also want that on which other
topic do you want to have discussions like now we have
completed the topic that DSA study guide,
give us a complete blueprint, and
what kind of discussion do you want where I can
share with you from my experience so that you have a
study guide, then you
can read from wherever you want to study, there is no
problem in this, so
tell me in the comment section, then we will have
a discussion on that, now today first of all,
I have prepared some notes for you
so that we can have
a complete analysis of what  We are going to do this
in this video,
basically in this video I will give you a study guide
that how to study DSA
because obviously even a first year
student is confused, even a final year
student is confused, so can we
make a study framework so that
we can analyze for everyone that which
student can study from where, what
questions should you ask yourself, so that's what
we have made here and there is well research, it's
not like we are talking in the air, there is
years of experience in this, it will
help you a lot, so if you haven't subscribed, then subscribe
now and if you haven't subscribed, then no
problem, do it later, we are not going anywhere,
okay, so I will
share the screen with you and now let's
discuss a little bit about what we are
in this video, how will we talk, so
first of all, see, nowadays the most important thing is to
tell who I am, brother, now look,
I am not a fan's mentor or a fan's software
engineer, I have
welcomed you with open arms, so we have been
in tech from the beginning, from the beginning  We have been launching courses and
teaching students from the beginning.
Many students have gone everywhere in our tech wing, so
we are happy about that. So
first of all, it is
important to tell about yourself these days. Brother,
I am currently working and also
come to youtube. Sir, what is your
experience of making this DSA guide? Have
you ever taught? Yes,
we have taught, have taught live, have
taught in Booth and have also taught in recorded form.
I have studied the DSA subject a
little bit and have also taught it. I have taught
it in Python as well. I have taught it in C++, I have taught it
in Java and JavaScript as well.
What I enjoyed the most was
teaching Python and
while studying, I had prepared myself in C++
because I was coming from assembly language.
I felt that
this language is much better than assembly. So,
that's why I did it in C++ at that time
and we will discuss more about it as well.
Okay, so this is our short course.  So the
introduction is fine, so let's move ahead
now how to study. See, data
structure algorithm has become a rat
race today, there is no doubt in this,
everyone has to study DSA just to crack the interview,
but I always recommend that you
study the subject for engineering, how you learn engineering from that subject,
learn to build things, learn to optimize things,
interviews will be cracked automatically, so to
study DSA, first of all, let us
see what is DSA, DSA
means Data Structures and Algorithms,
these are two different subjects in themselves,
but in all our
curriculums in India, data structures and
algorithms are taught together, but
I have also taught in many foreign universities
and there I have also done analysis with the teachers
and got the entire curriculum
designed, where data
structures are taught separately and
algorithms are taught separately, but
in India, both are taught together.  There is nothing
wrong. Okay, data
structures mean how the data is
stored, how it is structured.
In this we study that
when you store your data in a variable,
that is also a structure. If you
store it in an array, that is also a structure. If you
store it in an object, that is also a
structure. In this way, you
can also create your own customized structures. For example, there
may be a linked list. This
data structure
keeps track of a previous value. It also keeps track of a next value.
Now
we have created previous and next just for understanding.
Basically, it
keeps track of two values. In this way, it
can also keep track of six values. So these are your data
structures. There are some common data structures
which are industry standard. For example, linked list,
sync linked list, doubly linked list. So, the study of such
customized data structures which are
industry standard is
called data structure.
Algorithms are the
method of doing some work. Can there be steps for it?
So that we can optimize something, like when we
make tea, it is obvious that we
first put water in the tea, it is not that we
put tea leaves and then heat the gas, there are a number of
steps, optimization is done by those steps,
now if
you put tea leaves first and then heat the gas, then maybe the
tea will be made but not that good, so
these are algorithms, the
study of algorithms is in itself my very favorite
subject, like how to search,
how to sort a value,
primes algorithm
etc. there are many algorithms, some are
recently designed, some are studied,
some are a little old, so this is
your data structure algorithm, an
important thing where students often
argue that now I have studied data structure
algorithm, so now I will always
write optimized code, now I do not use array,
now I use set everywhere, it is
not like that, all the data structures have
a role, nothing is bad or
good.  It is good or bad on the basis of situation,
arrays are also good and
sets are also good when
work is done according to the requirement, if you
use the same thing everywhere with your eyes closed, then by
now arrays would have disappeared from languages, they do not
come in new languages, but it is not so, so
this is your small
brief guide that
what will you study in Data Structures and Algorithms and how will
you work, now let's first
analyze yourself, I have created some questions for you, I have
created a framework through which
you can ask some questions to
yourself and can decide that look,
from where do I have to learn, how do I have to learn, do I have to
learn for free, do I have to learn for paid, what do I have to do,
first analyze,
look at your programming basics, it is
important to know programming basics, often
people say that the
foundation of programming is formed from data structure, no it is not
so, it is absolutely wrong, first you
should know programming, only after that you
learn data structure, otherwise what will you
talk in the air about arrays, loops, functions,
no it is so  It is not necessary that you should know programming, you should know any
one language at least
basic. What is meant by
basic? Basic simply means that
if I tell you to bring the third element from the array, then
you can bring it. If I
tell you to make a class, in that
we will track three values, one should
keep its name as self, inside self we will
put some variable, one should be named as prav,
one should be named as next, you have to
make these and as soon as you make a constructor
so that when I create an object from that class, it should have
these three properties. If
you also get these things
in such a complexity, then your programming
basics are not right yet, if you are still
afraid of loops, functions, classes,
then it means we can analyze
whether we should move ahead or not, if you are
still afraid of programming basics,
a little bit or not, and I should practice a little,
everyone's practice is different, if
you get confidence by printing patterns, then do that,
if you
get confidence by coding lead, then do that, if you
think no, friend, a little small  If I
make small projects or make something small,
I will get confidence, so do that, there is nothing right or
wrong, so from here you will get to know
whether we have programming
basics or not, honestly, if you
answer this well, then you have the
next question to move forward, okay,
let's come to the next question,
how much discipline do we have, see,
everyone says that there is discipline, there should be
motivation, but you
know from within how much discipline you have
and it will depend on this that what kind of
courses you buy, if you want to buy in these cases, then
we will discuss this as well,
we will come to the time section, then we will
discuss it because I think there should be a
discussion of free and paid in the time section,
anyway, so first of all ask yourself
how much discipline do you have, do you do the
work yourself or not and how can a person lie to himself, if you lie then it is a
problem for yourself, there is nothing for us, so
this discipline will decide whether you
take live courses or  Take recorded courses,
now see if there is discipline, like I have
decent discipline, I know that if
I have to workout in the morning, then I do it.
I know that if I have to record a video today, then I have to do it.
I know that if I have to
take a class, then I have to take it. And this discipline has never been
affected by where I have reached in life,
how successful I have become, the
work I have to do, and it is also visible
on the channel that how many videos we have uploaded,
so your discipline will decide whether it is live
or recorded. If you have less
discipline or almost none, then I would
recommend that you study from live courses.
Now by live courses I do not mean
batches that are launched where the
instructor teaches you each and every thing live.
Yes, there are no recorded videos, the
I do not care from where you study, but the
instructor teaches you each and every thing live. The
entire discussion takes place in live.
Yes, whether you get the recording of live later or
not, those are their features, I have nothing to do with that.
No, but the instructor is not the kind who will give
you the videos and say that
okay we will discuss it with you later.
Those who do not have discipline are
already struggling and
if they go for the recorded format,
they face a lot of problems and the
drop ratio, which is our matrix in a tech, which is
called KPM, there is
a lot of drop and although the
money has already come, now inside the batch, there is no
difference whether you study or not, but as a
teacher I believe that if you do
not have discipline or you have less discipline, then you should
go for live courses only, they are expensive,
what to do, the teacher is sitting and taking classes, so it is
expensive, if
you have good discipline, then you
can go for recorded videos, now
look at the recorded videos, you will get
every price range from 0 to 000 and from 00 to 5000, you can get the best from the
teacher with whom you understand,
with whom you have a connection,
take it from there, study the best from there  I will
not discuss these further otherwise people will
say that our institute has been called bad, ours has been
called good, see everyone is
good, everyone is trying to teach you, I will
tell you again, you must decide with discipline whether
you want to go in pure live
or go in recorded mode,
nowadays there are two types of recorded where
videos are dropped batch wise, that is
three videos, five videos in a week and you
see that you get all the videos together, in
live, the instructor
himself sits and teaches, that itself is called live,
okay, so you have understood this,
now the second thing is you have to ask yourself,
you have decided that you will teach live or
recorded, after that ask yourself
how do you understand, do you understand in a group
or do you understand on your own,
see there are many types of students and
this is research based, I will
also show you through the research paper which I read
for teaching, that some students understand
more when they study in a group, that
once the teacher has explained, they discuss with someone,
someone  If you explain it to them,
they understand it more. There are some
students who have been taught by the teacher,
now they sit by themselves and
analyze the things carefully,
they prefer to understand things alone, so
ask yourself honestly whether you
understand more in a group or alone,
if you understand better in a group, then
whatever is your cohort
or wherever you are studying,
increase the interaction time a little bit,
instead of one hour you can do it for one and a half hours, and if
you feel that no, I am better off studying alone, then
reduce your interaction time and increase the revision time,
then honestly ask yourself, this
factor decides a lot, in fact, in the
research papers that have been published recently
within 2 years, there this factor is
given a lot of importance that
how does a student understand on his own
in a group, that alone, I am trying on this by the way,
I will probably prepare a tete-a-tete
very soon, but okay,
good analysis now.  The last parameter that
I have chosen here is time. Time will
decide whether you will study for free or for paid.
Now it is possible that many people will say that I do
not have money, I want to
study for free. See, all these are useless lies.
You are watching this video on a phone,
you have internet, you are going to college as well, so
you have enough fees to
decide whether you want to study for free or you are
already paying money. And the whole of
India, the whole world pays for education, so
why would we pretend
that we do not have it. The budget comes automatically.
When you feel like it, you have faith, you
need it, it comes automatically. But
how much time you have, that will decide.
See, everything is there in free resources
and everything is there in paid resources.
Paid resources are organized, there is a
liability that it has to be
completed and it has to be done well. So, there are
paid courses in free, it
depends on your own will. What else is there in free courses?  It takes
more time because
you have to do a little hunting, some
topics are good for some, some topics are
good for others, if you find a complete playlist then you have hit the
jackpot but mostly it doesn't
happen, you don't understand many things, so
you have to hunt, prepare the curriculum yourself and
study it yourself, which can take
time, it can take a year, it can take 2
years, it can take six months as well, it will
depend on your discipline, so
if you have an amount of time
in the market, then you can easily go for
free or for low pricing,
that okay we can afford, if it is
not taught well then we will
study from someone else, but if you don't have time,
then look at six months, it is a
tough matter, it is a matter of doing or not, so
I would recommend that
you take the paid course, how much it will cost,
from where to take it, it is up to you, we will not discuss this,
okay, so I think it must have
given you a good framework for all these questions that now I
can analyze and ask myself, bye.  The way you
keep the screenshot, if everyone has to
ask themselves then they can do so. Now one of the
most important thing is that I always start my
classes with the same that
DSA is a concept, just
like gravity is a
concept, it is constant, similarly
DSA is also a concept, so like are there in
almost every language, similarly the
functionality of your DSA to
implement data structures and algorithms is there in
every language,
now I cannot say about gravity, see
in USA there is a different gravity,
in India there is a different gravity and in Russia there is a
different gravity, so if there is a
name of the concept then it will be the same everywhere,
similarly if DSA is a concept then it is also there in
every language, saying that
this company asks DSA only in Java
or this company asks it only
in Python or this one
picks up the Python people and throws them out, whom are you
making mad, these are companies, stop joking.
Companies work on many projects and
work in many languages, so if someone has
written the code of DSA in Python or
someone has written the code in JavaScript, he is
thrown out. Why are you
spreading useless misconceptions? When the events are mature,
they will also understand that we were made mad.
DSA can be done
in any language, it can be done
in type script, it can be done in
JavaScript, it can be done
in Swift as well. So don't do this. I
think the student is in that phase
where he doesn't have that much maturity, but if you are a
student and looking at the code, then it is
better not to do this. So
study DSA in the language which you
already know. Every instructor has
command over his own language, so
he prefers to teach in that language,
but which language do you have command over, because it is the
world of internet, you
can find out which instructor is your
favorite and whether he is
teaching in your favorite language, if he is not teaching, then there are
many options available in the market,
study from anyone.  Ok, now let's come to some
tips which I have finally kept for you,
so maybe this will help you, maybe you should
n't do it. The first thing is this hunt
for a perfect course, it is probably
not a good thing and it will only put you in trouble
because no course can be perfect,
in some course
two topics may be missing, in some course one
topic may be missing, but as much as you
can, take that course,
finish that topic from there and then whatever is left, do it
from somewhere else. If you will keep on hunting
that sir this course was good but it does
n't have graphs, so I will not do this course,
this course was good but
it doesn't have Prim's algorithm, then
I will not do it, then you will always be
in search of perfection of a perfect course, you will
never be able to do DSA and every course is an
event, every playlist
course may have all the algorithms
and he is saying to sell it,
look, my playlist has everything,
this is not in it, so niche
shopping can be anywhere, you don't have to do it.
You don't have to run towards the perfect course, take the
best from where you can get it, get the
work done now and see about the rest later. The
second important thing is that there is no magic in
DSA that I will magically
explain DSA to you or someone else will do it for you. The
only thing about DSA is revision.
Even if you study a language, revision is that
when you have studied a language, after that you will
revise the project again and
see, only then you will understand, it is just revision, there will be no
magic solution. The
second thing is that many people
run more towards fancy topics that if there is
DP in that playlist then only I will
read, if there is Primes Algorithm then only I will
read, if there is Traveling Salesman then only I will
read. This is again a wrong thing, to
directly jump into these hot topics
because it is advanced and only these are
asked. You are spoiling your foundation.
You have not laid the foundation and have
started making the first floor, then obviously you are
bound to fall on your face. There is
no doubt in it, so such  Don't do it
directly, don't hunt for these topics,
first lay your foundation that DSA is
fine, I know strings, I can solve
basic problems,
I have learnt a little window sliding technique now,
now we will see that
we can go to these problems also, recursion
etc. has become solid, now we will
study from whichever DP is teaching well,
so go with this mindset, don't see
that there is no primes in this playlist, so
sir, why don't you teach it or don't do it, it does
n't happen comfortably,
keep your basics, one important
thing is that those who do
MindSumo, they seem a little
strange to me because I have come across such
students before who do
what they do directly that I have
solved the whole RD, oh brother you have
solved a particular whole book, it does
n't mean that you know the thing, if you
knew the thing then you wouldn't have needed to solve the whole book
because these
things are questions that solve  Do it and you will automatically come to it,
it never happens,
you have to sit and analyze your
brain.com and it
can be solved in this way and it can be solved in this way,
whatever are the methods to solve it,
so you do 200 questions
of lead code or you do 2000 questions
or you do 2 lakh questions, nothing is going to
happen, you sit well and analyze
that yes this is the topic, now I have understood it, there are
some five-six techniques of it, I have
understood it,
for a little question, do one or two questions of
these or solve the problem,
after this if any such problems come, then
I will solve it myself, if you are getting this confidence, then
your way of studying is right,
otherwise do 2 lakh questions, what
difference is it making to me and finally one thing which
I have written here itself that is to
analyze the patterns  This is most important in these problems
because only similar type of pattern
problems come to you, names change,
words change,
minor situations change but the
problem remains the same, you will
understand the pattern only when you do the same problem
again, people think that
I have solved this problem, I will do this
again, no no, you have
just solved one problem, when you write it two-three times
in the code, at first it will seem
that we are rote learning, but after that the
concepts will start getting clear,
conceptual clarity sometimes comes only after this rote learning phase to
some people, so never
shy away from doing it again, if you have
solved some good questions, solved the problem from
lead code or wherever, then you should
never feel hesitant in doing them again,
anything is repeated to
understand the concept, so this is our
discussion, today our tea did not get cold,
today it is hot
Hey, today everything is going well, tea is getting late,
so I gave you a little research
bagged full analysis of how
data structures should be studied, how to do
self analysis, how courses should be
analyzed and after that I hope that
now you will be able to take your best decision, I
know a lot of people must be thinking that
in this video also there will be course promotion
etc. but it is not like that, we will do that too, there is no such
thing, we are not
ashamed of that, there is a course, there are teachers, they will teach, they will
take charges for the course, what is wrong in it, if not
now, then sometime and so I hope
you liked this video, if you have
not subscribed then do let us
know in the comment section, are you liking such raw discussion,
if you are liking it then we will do more, if you are
not liking it then we will leave it and if there is any such
discussion, any question in your mind
then write it in detail, we will
sit comfortably and discuss that over tea, okay,
let's meet you in the next video some
other
time